Overhaul Concept Docs (#48)
waku-org/waku.guide: docs/overview/reference/waku-vs-libp2p.md

---

> title: Waku vs libp2p - What's the difference?

Author: I added a "Reference" section specifically for important guides not related to user onboarding for Waku but are still crucial for users to be aware of and refer to. Since Waku is built on libp2p, understanding their differences is important, even though it doesn't directly involve onboarding users to Waku. The purpose of the reference section is to house these guides, along with other resources like a glossary and FAQ (when available).

---

Since Waku is built on top of libp2p, they share a lot of concepts and terminologies between them. However, there are key differences between them that are worth noting.

## Waku as a Service Network

> Waku offers incentivization mechanisms to run nodes, whereas libp2p does not. Additionally, a user or a developer does not have to deploy own infra as a prerequisite to use Waku, it is a service network.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Waku intends to incentivization mechanisms to run nodes, whereas it's not part of libp2p's scope. Additionally, a user or a developer does not have to deploy own infra as a prerequisite to use Waku, it is a service network.
```

However, it is encouraged to [run your own node](https://github.com/status-im/nwaku/tree/master/docs/operators) to support and decentralize the network.

## Waku as a Keyturn Solution

> Waku includes a number of protocol covering the following domains like privacy preservation, censorship resistance, portability/runs anywhere.

Reviewer: > portability/runs anywhere.

Can you improve this phrasing somehow?
